# APopPoem.github.io

## Credits
www.songlyrics.com

## About


I made an algorithm that creates a cheesy love song with a rhyme pattern that combines the more annoying songs that artists have openly stated to have begun as poems. These songs are chosen by virtue of how hopeful or cynical they are of love. The experiment is to see if feelings of hope and sadness can be meshed to create something aesthetic, yet frustratingly incoherent and incomprehensible. 


## How does the algorithm work?


The algorithm works by scrapping a few websites for song lyrics. Then, the algorithm randomly chooses a syllable that it compares to the ends of each complete sentence in the scraped lyrics from all the songs in an attempt to find a total of 2 sentences that end with that syllable. If no two sentences have the same ending syllable then a new random syllable is generated and the process is repeated until a set is found. Once these sentences have been found, they are printed out and we have two rhyming verses.


## Why did I choose this content and algorithm?


I chose this content topic specifically because my project inspiration came to me as I was listening to a popular cheesy love song playlist that were also poems. Once I had found song lyrics that are known to have been originally poems, I categorized the list into cynical love songs and happy/hopeful love songs. The final song choice was based purely on what songs were familiar to me.


## How does the final output differ from what a person would write?


The final output could differ from what a human would write in terms of randomness of lyrics generated. In meshing together lyrics physically, the order and rhyme pattern are less likely to be as random as that generated by my algorithm. Furthermore, there is a lack of bias towards establishing coherency and comprehension. In human produced text, regardless of how random it is, there exists, arguably, some innate inclination to make a pattern of comprehension. This model completely disregards comprehension hence producing a piece that is devoid of this comprehensive bias.


## What thoughts or feelings does your output provoke?


The feelings I intend to provoke with this piece are feelings of obnoxiousness, familiarity and pronounced frustration. Considering the inspiration for this project is the frustration I often feel when listening to a cheesy happy or sad song with regards to the lack of coherency, exhausted rhyme patterns, and cheesy content of the lyrics and the random placing of words, I thought to recreate the same feeling but more pronounced so it can’t possibly be overlooked. To accomplish this, I incorporated an obnoxiously large font, and a glitchy transition combined with bright clashing colors. The smooth background video clashes with the chaos that is the lyrics to create an even more pronounced feeling of confusion. Since the surroundings and transitions almost suggest that the piece has to make sense, the inclination that a reader has to decipher the meaning of the lyrics when there isn’t one adds to the overall feeling of frustration.

